---
layout: post
title: "Fourth Blog"
---
Today I learned about the Antikythera Mechanism, Which is an artifcant dating back to around 100bce. It was a device that had 37 interlocking bronze gears, and it could predict solar and lunar eclipes in advance, track the position of the 5 planets the greeks knew about ( Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn ) It could also model the irregular orbit of the moon, the mechanism even accoutned for the moon slowing down and speeding up slightly, it could also show the egyption and greek calendars. very impressive that such technology existed at 100 BCE, but how do we know its from that time period? Well see we found this artifact in a ship wreck,  the ship was dated to be from around 70-60 BCE from the Roman Amphorae (wine jugs) the coins found at the site were also from 70-60 BCE.  the astronomical calibration suggests the mechanism comes from before that,  See in the eclipse prediction cycle the mechanism has a "start date" put into it, researchers reverse engineered the math and found it to be calibrated to start at 204 BCE. Furthermore, the device has inscriptions all over it which Linguists analyzed to date from 150-100 BCE. Fascinating how we can date artifacts made thousands of years ago. 
-----------------
Yesterday my brother told me about the voynich manuscript. The Voynich-Manuscript is a 240 page handwritted book, and it's written in a compeltley unknown language. it dates back to around 600 years ago in the 1400's. What makes it weird is that it has the statistical patterns of a real language, letter frequencies, repreated phrases,  word lenghts, yet 600 years later no one has translated a single word. The book also has some illustrations but it makes it more confusing, there are drawings of plants that dont match any known species of plant, there are astronomical drawings with diagrams of the sun and stars but some diagrams are completley alien to us. I wonder if it'll ever be uncovered.
------------
I learned more about the Roman Empire today, specifically from Julius Caesar to the death of Aurelius. Caesar had some military campaigns that were extremely successful, mostly conquering the Gauls, but the Senate was scared he would be too powerful, so he was ordered to come back. However, he crossed the Rubicon River with his army, which was highly illegal at the time, so it was seen as a declaration of war. He chased Pompey to Egypt, but found Pompey dead; there he met Cleopatra. He was assassinated by Brutus and some conspirators, which caused a civil war. Temporarily, Octavian and Mark Antony teamed up to kill the conspirators, with Mark Antony ruling the western half and Octavian ruling the eastern half. However, this did not last long. Once Mark Antony fell in love with Cleopatra, Octavian used this as propaganda, claiming Antony was controlled by Egypt. The Battle of Actium broke out; Antony and Cleopatra lost. Now, because Octavian had no competitors, Rome turned from a republic to an empire. When Augustus died, it marked the start of the Julio-Claudian dynasty and the pax romana.

His son Tiberius received the crown. He was mostly good but became paranoid and moved to Capri. Then the crown was given to Caligula, an initially popular leader who later turned erratic and was assassinated, if I remember correctly. Next, it was handed to Claudius, the uncle of Nero, who was a decent ruler. Then it went to Nero, who was very tyrannical and committed suicide, ending this dynasty. There was now a civil war leading to the Flavian dynasty. The civil war was between Galba, Otho, Vespasian, and Vitellius. Vespasian won, leading to the Flavian dynasty, where his sons Titus and Domitian took turns ruling. Titus was good at first but died after two years due to natural causes; he ruled during the eruption of Mount Vesuvius. Domitian then took over but was not as well-liked as Titus.

After Domitian, Nerva came, starting the era of the Five Good Emperors. The Five Good Emperors were Nerva, Trajan, Hadrian, Antoninus Pius, and Marcus Aurelius. Nerva was chosen more as an in-between emperor, but he did well until his own guards held him hostage, demanding he hand over the assassin who killed Domitian. This incident damaged Nerva’s military respect. Needing military support, Nerva decided to adopt a strong general named Trajan so he wouldn’t be killed later. This earned him the respect he needed, and when he died, Trajan took over. Trajan did well and expanded the Roman Empire significantly, then passed it to his nephew Hadrian, whom he had effectively raised. Hadrian also ruled excellently and decided to pass the crown to Antoninus Pius, on the condition that he adopt two children: Marcus Aurelius and Lucius Verus. Antoninus Pius was a good emperor, but little of note happened during his reign. He handed his crown down to his adopted children, who cooperated to run Rome. Lucius Verus died during a military campaign, leaving Aurelius in full control. Aurelius died before he could choose a worthy successor, so the crown was given to his son, Commodus, who was terrible. The death of Aurelius marked the end of the pax romana.
