---
layout: post
title: "Sixth Blog"
---
Today I learned about Dante's inferno, I always just assumed it was a religious text or scripture. I was wrong, it isnt a religious text or scripture, it was just a book written
by one man, Dante Alighieri.  Dante's inferno is a 3 book series, its apart of Dante's Divinde comedy. The three books are Inferno, Purgatorio, and Paradiso. I dont know much about Purgatorio or Paradiso but I have learned a small bit of Dante's inferno. In the 1300's Comedy didnt mean funny/comical in the way we think of it today it meant a story that goes from dark to light. In Dante's inferno, Dante is lost in a dark forest, there he meets a man named virgil(based off of Publius Virgil Maro) Virgil is sent by an angel named beatrice to help dante go on the path of good, to do this virgil shows dante the layers of hell so he can truly understand the weight of his sins. hell has nine circles and the deeper you go the worse it gets, naturally the worse the sin is, the worse the punishment is. The fist circle is called limbo, Interestingly enough the people in limbo did not sin at all, its just that they weren't baptized so they couldnt enter heaven. Limbo comes from the latin word "limbus" which just means the edge/border. They are on the edge of hell, and have an internal longing to enter heaven but cant do anything about it.It's where the term "in limbo" comes from and its where Virgil resides, as Virgil never got baptized himself. The second cirlce is lust, the punishment is that the souls here are blown around by violent winds. here we see two people, Paolo and Francesca, They were two real people who had an affair and were killed because of it. In hell francesca tells the story with such tenderness that Dante fainted in the book.Circle three is Gluttony, the sinner lay in filthy slush while being rained on forever. Cerberus the three headed dog garudens this circle, Cerberus is always hungry so it's fitting he oversees the circle of gluttony. The fourth circle is greed, the hoarders and the wasters are forced to push heavy weights at eachother for eternity. circle 5 is wrath, the wrathful fight eachother on the surface of a swamp while the sullen gurgle beaneath it. circle 6 is heresy, it contains burning tombs encasing those who commited heretic acts. the 7th circle is subdivided into three rings, those who commit violence against others, those who commit violence against themself(suicide) and those commmit violence against god and nature. the punishment for those who commited violence against others is being submerged in a river of boiling blood, the punishment for those who commited violence against themselves are transformed into thorny trees where harpies eat on there leaves, and they are in constant pain, when a leaf is torn off the tree bleeds. This one confused me, I understand the idea of hurting yourself is hurting one of gods creations, but the idea that people who commmit suicide are doomed to eternal damnation seems morally unjust. those who commit violence against god / nature lay on burning sand under a rain of burning fires. Violence against god / nature is also off to me, people who partake in non-procreative intercourse end up here, this is also where homosexual people go to, which also seems morally unjust to me. Circle 8 has 10 ditches. Ditch 1 has seducers and panderers, who are forced to walk around in opposite directions in a ditch while being whipped by demons. ditch 2 are the flatterers, who are submerged in excrement. ditch 3 is for the simoniacs, a simoniac is someone who effectivley paid for positions in the church, rather then working for it. the punishment for simoniacs is being stuffed headfirst into holes  in the ground while with flames burning there feet. the idea behind it is thats like an inverse baptism. ditch 4 is also ironic, its for the false prophets. the false prophets have there head twisted 180 degrees living in chronic pain, those who presumed to see the future can now only see the past. Ditch 5 is for the corrupt politicians who are submerged in boiling tar, if they surface demons drag them back down. Ditch 6 holds the hypocrites, the hypocrites are condemned to wear beautiful long cloaks lineed with lead inside, on the exterior its beautiful and elegant but on the inside it weighs heavy on them, the weight of it crushing them. Ditch 7 is for the thieves who lay in a pit of snakes, ditch 8 is for false counselors, there souls are trapped in fire burning forever. ditch 9 is for those caused discord, a demon with a knife hacks them and cuts them up, there wounds slowly heals only to be hacked again. those who divided others are now divided themselves. and for the last ditch, ditch 10, its for the falsifiers who now have various diseases and afflictions. In circle 9, the last circle is treachery, the absolute bottom frozen in ice. the 9th circle has four different zones for each type of betrayl. Satan is in the middle frozen chewing on Judas, brutus and cassius, the three biggest betrayers in Dantes eyes(Judas betrayed jesus, Brutus betrayed ceaser, cassius also betrayed ceaser) the four zones are caina, antenora, ptolomey, and judecca. Caina is named after cain(for betraying abel), frozen up to there heads, can see and speak, but stuck forever. Antenora is named after a trojan who betrayed troy the greek(troy was the city the trojans live din, antenora was suspected to be working with the greeks to help capture troy). In antenora the people are frozed up untill there head, fixed in place forever. Ptolomea is named after a man who named ptolomey who killed his guests at a dinner table, not the famous astronomer. Ptolomey gets his own zone because he broke the rule of hospitality which says the host musn't hurt their guests. and he killed his father,  Simon Maccabaeu. in ptolomea the people on turned with there backs facing up.the last zone, judeca is named after judas, the people in judeca are completley submerged with absolutley no movement. concious just no movement. The idea for circle 9 is that the further you get from the less of his warmth you feel. 

I also learned about the trojan war. It started because a trojan price named paris had to judge which godess was the most beautiful between Hera, Athena and Aphrodite, three godesses. They each offered him a bribe, He ended up choosing aphrodite who bribed him by giving him the most beautiful woman in the world, helen. issue being Helen was already married to Menelaus of sparta, angered his wife had been stolen from his menelaus of sparta gathered his armys and set sail to troy.that's the mythological reason for the war, the more realisitic reason for the war was that it was about trade routes through the black sea and the aegean, that versions less interesting though. The trojan war has lasted 10 years without signficant progress on either side, the greeks couldnt breach the walls of troy and the trojans couldnt drive the greeks away. the greek hero odysseus comes up with a plan, the greeks builds a big wooden horse thats hollow and fills it up with greek warriors. then the greeks sailed away leaving making it seem like they gave up, they left behind the horse and a greek solder named sinon. sinon pretended to be abandonded by the greeks and told them that the horse was a very important offering for the godess athena and that if they took inside there walls troy would be granted divine protection. the trojans were initally skeptical of this strange wooden horse. A man named laocoon was especially suspicious, he gave a speech against it and famously said "I fear the greeks even when they bring gifts" which is where the phrase "beware of greeks bringing gifts" comes from. anyway one day as he's preforming a sacrifice at an alter two enormous sea serpents come out of the sea and attack him and his two sons. when the trojans see this the trojans assume it was a divine punishment for impiety towards a sacred offering( the trojan horse) so they brought it in. at night the greek warriors exit the trojan horse and then open the gates and signal for the fleet of greeks to come back, the greek fleet comes back, enters troy and troy gets destroyed immeadietly. 

