---
layout: post
title: "First Blog"
---

Hello world. Today is March 21st of 2026. This is my first blog. today I learned about the ottoman empire. Started by Osman at the start of the 14th century and ended in the 20th century during ww1. seeing an empire start from the ashes of the mongols to live untill ww1 is insane to me. such a wide time period. I'm not a history buff but I do enjoy learning about history in my free time. I've learned about Skanderbeg, the Byzantine Empire and also Timur the lame, so learning about the ottoman empire was the natural next step as it was a big part of their stories too. Soon I plan to learn about the mongols and learn about genghis khan as he set the stage for the ottomans.   After this I will go back to learning more philosophies I think. I find philosophy fascinating, its a very simple subject, how to perceive the world around us yet it has so many fun little thought expieriments to chew on. Sometimes I just like the history of it all, The meeting between Alexander the great and Diogenes is infamous and I get why, but its also fascinating seeing both of them be students of socrates. Socrates taught plato who taught aristotle who taught alexander the great. socrates also taught antithises who taught diogenes. then they met. diogenese goes on to teach craetes of thebes who teaches zeno of citium and zeno takes cynicism and makes it less radical and calls it stoicism. one of the most influential philosophies in the west if not the most influential. hell even the way zeno met crates of thebes is sick. zeno's boat crashes and all of his goods were on the boat, zeno was a merchant who would sell purple dye. purple dye at the time was really expensive so when his boat sunk he lost all of his money and he was now in a new land he didnt know. he went into a book store and he reads a book about life which he found fascinating, he asks the book store owner where he could find more men who think like this and the book store owner points outside the store to a man walking past and says "follow him" that man was craetes of thebes and the student of diogenes. funny how history has a way of doing that. 
